I am Saigo Takamori, hailed from Satsuma (modern-day
Kagoshima) in 1828.
My family was of modest means but deeply proud
of their samurai lineage.
I grew into an imposing figure, standing six
feet tall and weighing about 200 pounds.
Beside being a skilled warrior, I was also
dedicated to the ideas of neo-Confucianism
and Buddhism.
During my life, Japan encountered the Meiji
Restoration which meant the end of the samurai
life style yet some people favored the originality
rather than modernization.
Because of that, I was exiled by my new lord
twice.
This made me reconsider many aspects in the
Japanese newly formed society.
I returned to Satsuma to play a leading role
in the political and military struggles of
the mid-19th century.
In 1868, my troops occupied Edo – current
day Tokyo, defeating the shogunate forces.
In 1871, I returned to Tokyo as the head of
the newly formed Imperial Guard.
I found many Japanese values being replaced
with western ones.
Despising the craze for Western fashion, I
continued to wear the traditional dress of
my region, shod in sandals or clogs.
I understood that Japan’s modernization
was inevitable, even desirable, but I could
not betray those who had fought under me.
I returned to Satsuma where I set up a military
academy.
Many young samurai were attracted to my school.
By 1877 I had an estimated 20,000 students.
When the government tried to confiscate weapons
from Satsuma’s arsenal in 1877, the samurai
took up arms and rebelled.
We sought refuge on Mount Shiroyama.
I informed my troops that this would be our
final battle and enjoined them to die bravely.
I was dressed in an austere yellow kimono,
saber in hand.
I charged down the hillside with a few last
fighters.
I was wounded by a bullet in my right thigh,
felled by the modern army i had helped create.
The extent of the defeat suffered by the samurai
cause was almost total.
I hope my dignity and courage in facing the
classic Japanese conflict between the quality
of duty and human instinct has made my country
one of the greatest countries in the world.